+++
title = 'Things I Found Interesting 1'
date = 2024-12-29T10:40:28-05:00
draft = false
+++

As implied by the terminating digit on this post, I would like to make this a thing, posting things that I remember as interesting and have the energy to post here.

## Lifestyle / Vibes

### Joe Scott

One of the topics I routinely talk about with the people close to me is society's lack of agency or drive to learn new things to better their careers and lives. 

I am someone who likes to work on these sort of things, actively improving my existing skills or learning new ones. I make attempts to invite other people into my world of learning new things, but this is rarely something people want to get into.

The video below takes the opposite position of my own; as a young person growing up with the internet and a broken world, what is the point of learning anything?
{{< youtube id=qqijEATGnlA >}}

It is a sobering, yet valid argument that I found engaging.

### Older Brother

I came across this guy on the way up to Gunstock Mountain Resort for some nice night skiing. I think this was recommended to me because I've been listening to nostalgic CoD gameplay commentaries where mid- to late-20-somethings complain about how shitty their life and the world is.

I watched this one first:
{{< youtube id=m00WzTsohlA >}}

then this one afterwards:
{{< youtube id=en-ClrgaV8U >}}

Something I've been yearning for in my world is mentorship. For the terminally online, the internet has basically destroyed traditional mentorship; our emotional selection and confirmation biases draws us to communities or ideologies that we agree and identify with, and sometimes we can lose sight of what the real world is like.
We have disdain for internet celebrities like Mr. Beast or Andrew Tate or whatever, but if we sought out the creator circles in our local communities, you'd probably find they're chill normal people.

It is refreshing to hear confidently sane people posting content about how they got to where they are.

### Productive Pete

Along a similar vein, this channel appeared in the recommended videos of Older Brother:
{{< youtube id=kL2QkfhGhcc >}}

This video has described my life philosophy better than anything I could have explained myself. Certainly will be checking out more of his stuff in the future.

## Technical Stuff

### Core Dumped

I first stumbled upon this channel say 3-4 months ago, and I was struck by how clear and concise the animations and explanations were in explaining tough concepts. The video below is a general Q&A session, but he goes into his production workflow, which features an AI voice generated by ElevenLabs and animations made with PowerPoint transitions:
{{< youtube id=FlOVA8NLGDQ >}}

I was particularly interested in this video because this channel blew up fast, *really* fast. It amazes me that someone could be incredibly competent at something and not share it, but the moment they share something, they basically blow up.

I still believe in content meritocracy, where the best stuff will get attention, even if it's not as much as it deserves.

### Blog Design

For the one soul paying attention this (myself), you may have noticed that there have been some styling changes in the recent past. 

I decided to swap out raw custom CSS for TailwindCSS and DaisyUI, and making fun little widgets is much easier now.